content/_index.md, before:

+++


# The homepage contents
title = "Open mSupply"

[extra]
lead = '<b>Open mSupply</b> consists of an ecosystem of software and services to help manage health supply chains</br>You&#39;re on the English site: Passer au <a href="/fr"> Français</a> / Cambiar a <a href="/es">Español</a>'
url = "/docs/introduction/introduction"
url_button = "👉 Open mSupply Desktop Docs"
repo_version = "GitHub v1 beta"
repo_license = "Open-source AGPL License."
repo_url = "https://github.com/openmsupply/remote-server"


[[extra.list]]
icon = "mSupplymobile.png"
title = "mSupply mobile"
content = 'The <a href="/mobile/introduction/introduction">User Guide</a> for mSupply mobile!'

[[extra.list]]
icon = "mSupplyTorso.svg"
title = "The Original mSupply Desktop"
content = 'The <a href="https://docs.msupply.org.nz/">User Documentation wiki</a> for desktop mSupply- now over 20 years old'

[[extra.list]]
icon = "dashboard.png"
title = "mSupply Dashboard"
content = 'The <a href="/dashboard/introduction">User Guide</a> for the mSupply Dashboard!'

[[extra.list]]
icon = "coldchain.png"
title = "mSupply Coldchain"
content = 'The <a href="/coldchain/introduction">User Documentation</a> for the mSupply Coldchain Android application'

[[extra.list]]
icon = "conforma.png"
title = "Conforma"
content = 'The <a href="https://docs.conforma.nz/">User Documentation</a> for the Conforma workflow managment platform'

+++

Commit message:

Updating the name of "mSupply Cold Chain"

content/_index.md, after:

+++


# The homepage contents
title = "Open mSupply"

[extra]
lead = '<b>Open mSupply</b> consists of an ecosystem of software and services to help manage health supply chains</br>You&#39;re on the English site: Passer au <a href="/fr"> Français</a> / Cambiar a <a href="/es">Español</a>'
url = "/docs/introduction/introduction"
url_button = "👉 Open mSupply Desktop Docs"
repo_version = "GitHub v1 beta"
repo_license = "Open-source AGPL License."
repo_url = "https://github.com/openmsupply/remote-server"


[[extra.list]]
icon = "mSupplymobile.png"
title = "mSupply mobile"
content = 'The <a href="/mobile/introduction/introduction">User Guide</a> for mSupply mobile'

[[extra.list]]
icon = "mSupplyTorso.svg"
title = "The Original mSupply Desktop"
content = 'The <a href="https://docs.msupply.org.nz/">User Documentation wiki</a> for desktop mSupply - now over 20 years old'

[[extra.list]]
icon = "dashboard.png"
title = "mSupply Dashboard"
content = 'The <a href="/dashboard/introduction">User Guide</a> for the mSupply Dashboard'

[[extra.list]]
icon = "coldchain.png"
title = "mSupply Cold Chain"
content = 'The <a href="/coldchain/introduction">User Documentation</a> for the mSupply Cold Chain Android application'

[[extra.list]]
icon = "conforma.png"
title = "Conforma"
content = 'The <a href="https://docs.conforma.nz/">User Documentation</a> for the Conforma workflow managment platform'

+++
