content/health-supply-hub/purchaser/organisation.md, before:

+++
title = "Your Organisation"
description = "Health Supply Hub user documentation."
date = 2025-05-01T08:00:00+00:00
updated = 2021-05-01T08:00:00+00:00
sort_by = "weight"
weight = 3
template = "health-supply-hub/page.html"

[extra]
toc = true
top = false
+++

#### Setting up your Organisation Profile

<p align="center">
<img src="/health-supply-hub/images/customer_organisation_navigation.png" width="750"  >
</p>

Organisation profiles are visible to both suppliers and purchasers. Purchasers are able to see supplier profiles, while suppliers are able to see purchaser profiles.
Update your organisation profile by selecting “My Organisation” (1) then “Update Profile” (2) and “Update Contact” (3). An organisation profile allows suppliers to find purchasers to request to bid/quote in tenders. You may upload a logo, website information and contact details which will be visible to suppliers.

#### Users

There are 3 types of user permission settings on Health Supply Hub.

|                     |                                                         |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| Organisation Access | General users who are only able to view tenders         |
| Organisation Admin  | Ability to manage profile, tenders, users and suppliers |

To view your user permission settings, hover your mouse over your “User” at the bottom of the webpage.

<p align="center">
<img src="/health-supply-hub/images/my_organisation_identifier.png" width="400"  >
</p>

If you receive an “Authentication Error”, this may indicate that you do not have the permissions for the task. See your “Organisation Admin” to review your access or [contact mSupply Support Team](mailto:health-supply-hub@msupply.foundation).

<p align="center">
<img src="/health-supply-hub/images/permission_denied.png" width="400"  >
</p>

#### Managing users in your Organisation

If you have admin rights, you are able to view and manage users in your organisation. Select “Users” (1) to view users in your organisation and “Invite user” (2) to invite users to your organisation. When inviting users, select user permissions you would like this person to have.

![image](/health-supply-hub/images/managing_my_organisation_users.png)

Note: You may also notice a user with “name_integration” in your organisation. This is not a true user but is used to link your mSupply program to Health Supply Hub.

##### Deleting Users

Users cannot be removed from Health Supply Hub for audit purposes. In future updates there will be a feature to hide inactive users.

#### Supplier Profiles

Suppliers are required to go through an application process to become visible on the Health Supply Hub Supplier Profile list.

Once registered, these suppliers can then be invited to participate in tenders. If a purchaser would like a particular supplier who is not registered on HSH to bid, they will need to request the supplier to register. This can be done by [submitting a form](/health-supply-hub/supplier/registration/#registration-process), or emailing health-supply-hub@msupply.foundation (allow 1 working day for processing your registration). Registering to Health Supply Hub is easy and helps to streamline the tender process for both you and the supplier.

Once registered, purchasers are able to link suppliers to their mSupply instance (with or without help from mSupply Support). The purchaser can then easily invite the supplier via mSupply tender module and make orders from winning bidders.

To view Supplier Profiles, go to “Supplier Profiles” on the sidebar menu and select the supplier.

![image](/health-supply-hub/images/navigate_to_supplier_profiles.png)

The organisation profile will display the organisation logo, website and other important details related to the organisation. This is an opportunity for purchasers to see and consider more suppliers in their tenders.

![image](/health-supply-hub/images/supplier_profile_view.png)

#### Managing Suppliers

Supplier lists can be created to help make managing suppliers and tenders a lot easier. To create a supplier list, select “Manage Suppliers” (1) then “New supplier list” (2). Select “Manager supplier list” (3) to add suppliers.

Managing suppliers button
![image](/health-supply-hub/images/managing_suppliers.png)

Select “Add to list” (1) to add suppliers. You are unable to edit Supplier list names once they have been created. To remove the list, select “Delete Supplier list” (2). To remove suppliers, select the supplier and then select the dropdown and “Remove selected suppliers” (3).

Select action suppliers suppliers button
![image](/health-supply-hub/images/managing_suppliers_actions.png)

Select suppliers to add to your supplier list, then select “OK”.

Commit message:

add Organisation Integration user role

content/health-supply-hub/purchaser/organisation.md, after:

+++
title = "Your Organisation"
description = "Health Supply Hub user documentation."
date = 2025-05-01T08:00:00+00:00
updated = 2021-05-01T08:00:00+00:00
sort_by = "weight"
weight = 3
template = "health-supply-hub/page.html"

[extra]
toc = true
top = false
+++

#### Setting up your Organisation Profile

<p align="center">
<img src="/health-supply-hub/images/customer_organisation_navigation.png" width="750"  >
</p>

Organisation profiles are visible to both suppliers and purchasers. Purchasers are able to see supplier profiles, while suppliers are able to see purchaser profiles.
Update your organisation profile by selecting “My Organisation” (1) then “Update Profile” (2) and “Update Contact” (3). An organisation profile allows suppliers to find purchasers to request to bid/quote in tenders. You may upload a logo, website information and contact details which will be visible to suppliers.

#### Users

There are 3 types of user permission settings on Health Supply Hub.

|                          |                                                                                               |
| ------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Organisation Access      | General users who are only able to view tenders                                               |
| Organisation Admin       | Ability to manage profile, tenders, users and suppliers                                       |
| Organisation Integration | User used exclusively for integrating you mSupply system for synchronising tenders and quotes |

To view your user permission settings, hover your mouse over your “User” at the bottom of the webpage.

<p align="center">
<img src="/health-supply-hub/images/my_organisation_identifier.png" width="400"  >
</p>

If you receive an “Authentication Error”, this may indicate that you do not have the permissions for the task. See your “Organisation Admin” to review your access or [contact mSupply Support Team](mailto:health-supply-hub@msupply.foundation).

<p align="center">
<img src="/health-supply-hub/images/permission_denied.png" width="400"  >
</p>

#### Managing users in your Organisation

If you have admin rights, you are able to view and manage users in your organisation. Select “Users” (1) to view users in your organisation and “Invite user” (2) to invite users to your organisation. When inviting users, select user permissions you would like this person to have.

![image](/health-supply-hub/images/managing_my_organisation_users.png)

Note: You may also notice a user with “name_integration” in your organisation. This is not a true user but is used to link your mSupply program to Health Supply Hub.

##### Deleting Users

Users cannot be removed from Health Supply Hub for audit purposes. In future updates there will be a feature to hide inactive users.

#### Supplier Profiles

Suppliers are required to go through an application process to become visible on the Health Supply Hub Supplier Profile list.

Once registered, these suppliers can then be invited to participate in tenders. If a purchaser would like a particular supplier who is not registered on HSH to bid, they will need to request the supplier to register. This can be done by [submitting a form](/health-supply-hub/supplier/registration/#registration-process), or emailing health-supply-hub@msupply.foundation (allow 1 working day for processing your registration). Registering to Health Supply Hub is easy and helps to streamline the tender process for both you and the supplier.

Once registered, purchasers are able to link suppliers to their mSupply instance (with or without help from mSupply Support). The purchaser can then easily invite the supplier via mSupply tender module and make orders from winning bidders.

To view Supplier Profiles, go to “Supplier Profiles” on the sidebar menu and select the supplier.

![image](/health-supply-hub/images/navigate_to_supplier_profiles.png)

The organisation profile will display the organisation logo, website and other important details related to the organisation. This is an opportunity for purchasers to see and consider more suppliers in their tenders.

![image](/health-supply-hub/images/supplier_profile_view.png)

#### Managing Suppliers

Supplier lists can be created to help make managing suppliers and tenders a lot easier. To create a supplier list, select “Manage Suppliers” (1) then “New supplier list” (2). Select “Manager supplier list” (3) to add suppliers.

Managing suppliers button
![image](/health-supply-hub/images/managing_suppliers.png)

Select “Add to list” (1) to add suppliers. You are unable to edit Supplier list names once they have been created. To remove the list, select “Delete Supplier list” (2). To remove suppliers, select the supplier and then select the dropdown and “Remove selected suppliers” (3).

Select action suppliers suppliers button
![image](/health-supply-hub/images/managing_suppliers_actions.png)

Select suppliers to add to your supplier list, then select “OK”.
